User Story / Gameplay
Describe the gameplay
There are two paddles on the screen to the left and to the right which move up and down. You control one of these while your friend controls the others. You have a ball in the center which moves up,down,left and right. You have to block the ball from passing you, if it passes the other paddle gets a point.
What are the conditions when the game begins?
If the ball moves past your paddle, the other team scores a point. You both start with zero points. The first paddle will be on around 200 on the x-axis and the second paddle will be around 700 on the x-axis. The ball will be at x axis 450, directly in the center as well as centered to the y-axis.
Does the game have an end? If so, what are the conditions for when it ends?
First to 15 points wins
What ifs will there be?
If enough time passes when and you don't score, the speed of your ball will increase. If the ball hits a paddle, then the ball switches directions both x and y axis. If the ball hits the wall then it swaps the y-axis. If a paddle hits the wall, then you will unable to move the paddle further up or down.
Visual Game Components:
What are the visual game components? For example, in Bouncing Box, the game components were the board and the box.
The paddles will be skinnly long rectular white boards and the ball will be a white ball spinning gif. There will be a white dashes line down the center. At the top will be a scoreboard for player 1 on left and player 2 on the right.
The paddles will be static and the ball will be dynamic
What data will you need to manage each game component? For example, in Bouncing Box, the data values were positionX, speedX, and points.
The same values for bouncing box however for the board I will be using the just the y values and there will be named paddle1Y and paddle2Y and for the box it will have ballX ballY and speed to make the game not boring. I will also have data to keep score on the players, so player one and two will be variables that hold our score. Another piece of data will be the ball speed and how it increases.
Events / Logic
What events will occur in this game? (timer events, keyboard events, clicking events?)
As time moves on with each score, the box slowly gets faster, and with each point the box gets a tiny bit faster. When you would click the arrow keys (or wasd for other player) upon click, the paddles will move, then upon stop clicking, the paddles will stop. You click the screen to start. With each point there will be a one minute timer and after the timer ends, the ball speeds up a little.
How do those events affect the data of the program?
I will have to implent lots of timers and speed into the code. Increaseing the speed after a certain amount of time passes as well as increasing score when the ball passes the border.
For each event, write out the high-level logic of what will happen. It is better (and tricky) to be as specific as you can while remaining high-level!
When a ball passes the border, and output of plus 1 points will occur. When the ball hits the paddles, the x-axis and y-axis will output the axis going in the oppostie direction. Same when the balls hist the walls except only the y-axis swaps.